From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman posted by
call Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
and on some show. Number
10 recorded Monday, March 13th, 2006. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
automated QA makers of tests,
complete providing automated testing of
windows.net framework, Java and web
applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by Peter
bloom.com start with better controls.
Finish a better sites online@peterblum.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading
that net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks about functional testing tools
and utilities. . Hi, this
is Carl Franklin. You're listening to
Hansel minutes show number 10.
Of course, I'm here with
Scott Hanselman and this week
we're talking testing tools, right?
Scott, We are specifically a
web testing tools testing stuff
when you make websites. All
right. So basically we have
this great sponsor and we
haven't talked about them at
all. You know, it's a
little weird talking about a
sponsor's product because you don't
want to seem like, you
know, Oh, well you're just
kowtowing to the sponsor, but
you know, this is good
stuff. And we took it
all for a spin, but
you also tried out some
other testing tools. So you're
going to talk about several.
Yeah. Automated QA is test
complete is cool, but I've
just thrown it into a
pile with a bunch of
other web testing tools like
selenium I E unit bad
boy, pester cat segway, soak,
test web recorder from MJ
T net. Alright man, a
pile, you know, there's new
stuff coming up from the
water team called Firewater. We'll
talk about them all. Alright,
well, let's get started what's
first. Well, so I'm a
web guy mostly. And when
I think about doing functional
testing over the web, from
what I can tell, there
is a, a number of
different classes of what kind
of philosophy about how I'm
going to do my testing.
There's your HTTP based test
tool, right? This is the
kind that maybe sets up
a proxy. They don't really
care what browser you use.
They set up a local
host proxy, and then they
listen to the HTTP traffic,
right. And they'll record it.
And like a, snooper like
a snooper and then they'll
do the TiVo thing and
they'll record and playback. And
these things are, are clever
for load testing, right? Because
then you can just say
they, Hey, that thing you
just did do it a
lot, but now have 20
guys do it. But for
functional testing, it's a little,
it's a little dodgy because
sometimes you want to test
Java script that you've got
in your client side. Sometimes
there's complicated interactions that can't
really be seen when you
just looking at the underlying
traffic. Okay. So you got
your HTTP based recorders. Then
you've got JavaScript object, model
ones. These are ones that
say, well, I want to
get basically my browser on
a string. I want to
be a puppet master. And
the JavaScript object model is
the best way to do
that. Right? Those guys are
usually cross platform cross browser
because they're using JavaScript to
do the real heavy lifting.
Sure. Then you've got your
win 32. What I call
your win? 32 spy plus
plus plus type of guys.
Yeah. This is like real
similar to the automated QA
guys. Although they also do
HTTP based traffic. This is
where you have a, the
tree of all of the
windows, not the windows in
the, Hey look at all
the windows in my task
bar. Yeah. Sense of things.
But in the, this little
button is a window and
there's a tree of H
wins kind of a wind
32 way. Yeah. That's really
useful because you can do
both wind forms and web
forms testing. And we'll talk
about the goods and the
bads about that. Now I
know you're not a big
windows programmer per se, but
yeah. So, so you're really
gonna focus on web testing.
Right? I want to just
kind of cover the philosophies
and some of these tools,
do you do windows based
testing, which you can still
use to test your browser
so you can actually still
do web testing with this
philosophy. Okay. So then you've
got your payload based recorders.
These are the ones that
kind of look at the
HTML page and then poke
around in the page using
their own object model. They'll
sometimes they'll take the HTML
and they'll make it look
like XML and you'll do
a X path queries on
the page. And that's how
you'll find an object. Others
will look at the payload
with regular expressions and say,
give me the text box
called social security number, or
give me the button called
Go and I'll do something
with it. Okay. The main
point of classifying these different
things is to call out
that an HTTP recorder is
not a web recorder. Okay.
So when someone says, Oh
yeah, I'm recording traffic and
playing it back. Well, what
exactly are you recording button
clicks? Are you recording HDP
posts? So when you're picking
a tool, you should really
think about that, what your,
what your goal is and
whether that tool meets your
needs. So are you saying
that an HTTP recorder is
a server side recorder and
a web recorders client? Or,
or what exactly are you
saying is the difference between
those two? Are you trying
to be a puppet master
and control the, the UI?
Yeah. Or are you sitting
between the browser and the
server watching what goes by?
I see. Yeah, exactly. One
is a sniffer. One is
a controller. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely.
So There's a really huge
list of QA testing products
at  dot com slash
C Y eight. And some
of them, these tools that
I picked came from that
list, certainly I'm sure we've
missed someone. I mean, we're
only going to talk about
a dozen half a dozen
tools, but you know, if
you're really awesome tool is
not on this list. I
apologize. But wow. I picked
the ones that I Good.
Okay. This is a big
list. Well, yeah, it's hardcore.
I mean, there's always someone
out there who's got a
great tool to do something,
but what I wanted to
do was pick enough tools
that cover this, these classes
that I've come up with.
I mean, this is something
I just made. Right, right.
But did they HDP based
JavaScript object based window based
payload based. Those are the
kind of the, from where
I see at the top
level. Okay. Classification. Sure. Okay.
Okay. So, so automated QA,
our sponsor has a thing
called test complete, and they
are, I would say primarily
a windows application tester. Okay.
But so like WinForms applications,
I was able to get
a recording and playback of
like a calculator test in
like 10 minutes. It was
pretty easy. You know, you
just hook up a test
suite, you launch calculator and
you start messing with it
and they record everything that
you do because they're primarily
calm based. And they're kind
of like spite plus, plus
I keep referring to spy
plus, plus this is a
tool that comes along with
a visual studio that lets
you know, the window handle
hierarchy, Right. The different things.
So they have a number
Plugins that you can test
WinForms applications, you can get
into your dotnet objects. They
also have rappers for things
like end unit and stuff.
So they really intend to
be your complete testing suite.
Yeah. For whatever you're doing.
So if you've got a
bunch of end unit tests
and a wind forms control,
and you really want to
simulate, somebody's pounding on this
thing, doing functional testing, doing
load testing, doing whatever you
would use their tool. Now
I know you're primarily a
web guy, but there doesn't
seem to be a lot
of testing tools out there
for windows applications. Am I
right? Not that I see.
I mean, there's your big
guys like your soak test
and different ones like that,
but they're, they're expensive and
it's kind of complicated because
when you're going to go
poking around at windows, you
have to ask yourself, am
I just going to do
wind forms? So am I
making a.net application? Right? Or
am I going to do
any application in windows that
can put out a UI?
So the automated QA guys
took the window handle approach,
which means that they can
test anything. They can test
Delphi, they can test C
plus plus MFC. They test
finished products from the, from
the outside, but they also
do. What's called white box
testing. Where if you know,
your object has some, like
your dotnet controls have a
static method that you want
to poke around and call.
You can not only pound
on the buttons, but you
can also leap inside the
application and call methods. You
can do API level stuff
as well. Okay. So their
tools 500 bucks without the
web stuff for load testing
or 900 bucks for the
full kind of enterprise edition.
Okay. So let's kind of
prices it outside of the,
you know, one or two
guys shops unless that shop
does, does web testing does
hardcore testing. Right? Initially some
of the things that kinda
turned me off is that
while it has parameter help,
where you can like see
the different ha you can
see specific help on each
parameter, I didn't see a
way to turn on IntelliSense
and I'm kind of an
IntelliSense addict and I'm kind
of had a little trouble
getting through it. But on
the web testing side, they
take a windows based approach.
So you basically walk around
inside the I E Dom,
the document object model. And
you can look at it
two ways. You can look
at it via a window
or a, they call it
a tree approach and they
have a tag approach. But
basically you write script like,
you know, document dot, all
dot forms, dot button.click, okay.
Like that. Do they record
scripts as well? They do
record HDP traffic. So I
was able to like load
test my blog. I brought
up a browser, it recorded
all the traffic I clicked
around in my blog. And
then I simulated five users
beating on my blog. That
was really easy. So that
was doing kind of record
and playback because their tool
does both HTTP based window
based and JavaScript object based.
So they're actually doing kind
of three different kinds of
testing of the, of the
classes that I listed out
all in one tool. Right.
But getting the brow, getting
them to listen to the
browser, click and do that
kind of high level functional
testing is from a recorder
point of view. I wasn't
able to get working. Okay.
But for someone who would
write that test themselves like
manually, it's pretty straightforward. You
can do it in Delphi
and vb.net, and C-sharp in
whatever you want. They've like
we have language plugins and
that was pretty straightforward. It
looks a lot like segue,
soak test. Okay. Segue, soak
test is way more expensive.
It's $5,000. Plus segway soak
test is, is pretty hardcore
pits. It's kind of like,
if you need to ask
how much it is, then
you probably don't need it.
Right. Cause I went up
on their site and we
own soak test here at
Kerlin. I went up on
their site and looked at
how much it costs. And
it said, if you'd like
to buy, give us a
call and we'll hook you
up with one of our
sales professionals now, is that
mercury? Okay. So mercury WinRunner
is from, I believe it's
from rational and that's another
tool. That's something else. That's
something else from shrinks.com/cyc. These
are the kind of the
Bentley And Mercedes have testing
tools where an enterprise decides
that they're going to standardize
on this at that, you
know, several tens of thousands
of dollars as an enterprise.
Okay. Soak test is kind
of like as a Pascal,
like language called for test
While the automated QA guys
give you the choice, Like
five different languages and you
can pick up segway silk
test at shrinks.com/c Y L.
You said that both of
these programs are very expensive.
Well, I would say that
soak, soak tests and mercury
are definitely in the several
grand per person kind of
a world. So if you're
looking at like a wind
runner, or if you're looking
at segway soak test, take
a look at automated QA
test complete, you're going to
get very, very similar benefits
for half or fifth of
the cost. Yeah. It looks
like definitely cheaper. Yeah. Even
at their most expensive. Yeah.
Yeah. So the, the, the,
the commitment to this, to
any testing product, right, is
that you're going to basically
put all of your eggs
in this, this testing products
basket. One of the things
I liked about the test
complete is that they'll call
in unit tests. They'll use
some of the existing resources
that you have. So if
you had a really complicated
application that had both wind
forms and web UI, that
would be the kind of
thing you want to look
at. Cool. So other web
testing tools that are way
cheaper and as such, of
course, you get a lot
less benefits. Another one is
called S w Explorer automation
from Alex Ferman, and that's
at shrinks.com/c Y E. This
is a tool that we
kind of go back and
forth here at Kirlian about
I'm personally a water fan,
w a T I R
web application testing and Ruby.
We'll talk about that in
a second. But one of
our QA leads here, Brent
strange is a fan of
the SW Explorer automation, because
it generates in some way
a C sharp code or
Yeah. And that code in
some way, what do you
mean by that? This is
an interesting, an interesting tool.
He he's got a recorder,
right? So you, you go
into his application, you say
record, and then he watches
you actually click on the
page. But what you do
is you call you create
what's called a scene. So
you say on this page,
I am interested in these
things because I'm on a
particular page. You may not
be interested in every aspect
of the page, just a
few controls. Sure. So you
right. Click on the controls
and you say, I want
this, this and this in
my scene, you set up
these scenes and then you
can refer to them in
the scene as a, like
a simpler name than, than
what they were. Okay. And
then he saves out these
scene files in a form
of an XML file. This
XML file internally has an
X path that basically plucks
that control out. So when
you were clicking on the
control and setting the scene,
he was keeping track of
this depth, this path within
your HTML application. And then
when you generate the code,
he gives you a collection
of these objects that you
were interested in the scene,
and then you just pulled
them out of a hash
table. Okay. So good things
about that. Is it? Yeah,
it's pretty straightforward to use.
It's easy to record bad
things are that if he
does tie your testing code
a little bit to your
site's structure. So if you
move something around, if a
button comes out of a
text box, you have to
go back and then reset
the stage, basically go rerecord
the scene. You don't have
to rerecord your, your scripts.
You just have to change
this map. It's one of
the things I like about
visual studio that we sometimes
take for granted is how
it can, especially 2005, how
it remembers things and changes
things when you change them.
Yeah. It would be nice
if there was a better,
more deterministic way for him
to find these controls. Yeah.
But, but what he's doing
very clever, I mean, he,
he grabs what you're doing
and I E and he
creates these mapping tools. And
then that makes your scripts
very simple. So you don't
spend time in your script,
digging around for controls. You
spend the time doing what
you want to do, but
again, tying it to the
structure of the underlying document
seemed a little, a little
bit interesting when I said
that he generates this code,
kind of what he's generating
his C-sharp code, that calls
his underlying automation stuff. So
he's not generating C-sharp code
that talks to I E
he'll generate code that calls
SW Explorer, automation dot, navigate.
I see, rather than IAE
dot navigate, but then once
you're in there, you just
say things like scene, and
then you pull out the
object that you want. Interestingly,
also, rather than picking existing
objects, like HTML text area
from ASP, or pulling them
out of IIE or any
of the other places that
have defined these, he's got
his own controls collection. So
he really has a complete
wrapper around I E and
then he'll generate this code
for you that to modify,
and you can poke around
within his, his object model
on top of it. That's
very cool. And that's up@ashrinkstore.com
slash C Y E. And
that's $59. Pretty interesting. Mostly
a recorder, but he gives
you a pretty rich object
model. So with any recorder,
you're not going to do
your complete testing only in
the recorder, right? The reporter's
just going to get you
80% of the way there.
Right. Jumpstart your testing. Okay.
So stepping over to a
competitor, there's one called bad
boy at shrinker.com/c Y J.
This is an Australian company
that has a very similar
product that does recording as
well. SWE Explorer, automation, we'll
put it on a string
and basically launched that process
and then tile your windows.
So he's on the left
and he's on the right
bad boy. We'll put the
browser inside. And this is
a real easy way to
do your automation. Basically. He's
sticking the user control inside
now. Yeah, bad boys, kind
of a it's free, but
it's kind of walks the
line between an HTTP recorder
and an object model recorder.
He's watching the traffic as
you move around and keeping
track of requests and sub
requests, and then parameterizing them.
So then you can go
back in and say, well,
I like that request, except
this sub request here, where
I called out to this
I-frame I don't want to
do that anymore. Or I
want to change this. And
then he'll keep track of
all the assertions, the warnings,
the timings. He does lots
of charting and graphing, you
know, for free tool. It's
pretty, it's pretty amazing. Yeah.
Okay. Now, a very similar
tool that has a little
more functionality in my opinion,
is from the guys at
dot com. They've got
a tool called web recorder,
shrink, stir.com/c Y K. And
this is a showcase recorder.
That's actually separated from their
playback. So basically you, the
recorder creates scripts in their
scripting kind of VB language
that then is run through
their macro recorder. So they
have a generic macro recorder
can do the comeback and
do other things. It appears
the MJT net guys are
not just going for the
testing market, but also the
automation market. If you're someone
who wants to do screen
scraping, you could use their
tool to suck data off
of the net. Now, one
of the things that's really
cool is that they've taken
that idea like the watermaker
that I did awhile back,
which was a recorder, a
poor man's recorder that would
basically make water scripts. They
took their recorder technology, and
out of the kindness of
their hearts released a water
web recorder@trickster.com slash C Y
D. This uses their web
recorder technology, but records, Ruby
water scripts for you get
you jump-started on, on water
and is really already much
more, much more functional than
my existing tool. I know
you've talked about Ruby quite
a few times now and
what you know, what's, what's
so great about Ruby that
C-sharp can't do or VB
net can't do what is
so cool about it? It's,
it's hard. It's hard to
express it's. So it's so
elegant and elegant and not
in a C in a
CAEP C or C plus
plus kind of terse way.
Like some people will look
at C and they'll say,
wow, that's really elegant. It's.
So terse Ruby has that
kind of feel of VB
in the sense that it's
not hiding meaning and symbols
like C-sharp does or C
plus plus does, but it's,
it's avoiding unnecessary. It's it's
avoiding unnecessary words. I guess
it's kind of hard to
say. It's like, when you
hear someone like, like if
you read, if you read
Hemingway, you go, wow, that
was a really tight sentence.
He just said it all.
And I really can't. I
see how I'm struggling right
now to say this correctly.
That's kind of what Ruby
Is like. It's so it's
succinct. Maybe it's succinct. It's
smooth. It's elegant. It's now
it feels lightweight. Now, do
you like this for just
scripting? Or do you like,
would you like to see
this as a, as a,
you know, the, the next
language, the next big language?
I mean, for everything? Yeah.
I think, well, no, I
think it may be the
next big language. Like I
pointed to John Lamb's blog
right now. He's building that
Ruby CLR bridge. Definitely Ruby
is Gonna be around for
a while. I think it'll,
it'll fill a place like
Python. And is it a
lot what I'm getting at
is do you think it's
going to be a good
general language or is it
going to be specific to
web or windows apps or
any particular, What kind of
apps? I think that, because
Ruby on rails, they're, they're
web based, basically the asp.net
of Ruby is called rails.
So Ruby is Ruby. It's
a scripting language and you
can do whatever you want
to with it. You can
write command line applications, a
Ruby on rails, lets you
do things like object, relational
mapping and object persistence, and
really very elegant ways. You
can write a blog and
you know, 20,000 lines of
code, that kind of thing.
So your answer is you
still have it, Is it
general? I guess that's what
I'm asking. I mean, I
don't have to tell you
it's general until it's not
general C sharp general. Okay.
Yeah. It is sharp as
general to me. Yeah. Yeah.
It's general in that. Yes.
You can do anything you
want to with it. Yeah,
no one's no one said,
Oh wow. I totally couldn't
do that in Ruby. Okay.
And, and do you think
more VB programmers or C
sharp programmers would like Ruby?
I mean, who does it?
Who's the field. That's a
very good point. Just like
I was saying before that
it, it has a, a
VB style about it in
that it doesn't use a
whole lot of funky symbols,
but it has all that
kind of powerful. Oh, Oh.
As well as some things
that, that C sharp doesn't
quite do yet. Okay. So
I think that it's a
really good compromise. I mean,
if C-sharp programmers and db.net
programs could really bury the
hatchet, they would do it
over a language like Ruby.
Okay. Not for that. Let's
move on. Moves us on
to a nice place, which
is to the watch of
water. So water Reb, web
application testing in Ruby is
basically an I E wrapper.
It's a wrapper around internet.
Explorer's common interface that lets
Ruby talk to I E
in a very clean and
elegant way. And it's, I
like it because you can
literally just sit down and
start working and you're productive
immediately. I like it because
you can show someone something
in Ruby and water and
say, Oh, it's like this
and they'll go, Oh wow.
And you don't even need
to teach them the language.
Anyone who knows how to
code at all goes, Oh,
okay. Here's how you're doing.
If you know, so literally
you sit down and you
go, I e.new I E
dot go to eat, you
know? And that that's like
how you do it. Okay.
I E dot text field,
and you grab a text
field and you go dot
set value, and then you're
moving yourself along. It's that?
It's that easy. Okay. So
for really simple, functional testing
that you want to just
work, you want it to
be free and you're willing
to learn another language. It's
cool. Sure. Could you use
a C-sharp for this? Absolutely.
You could use vb.net. You
could go into visual studio.
You could say add web
reference and start poking around
at I E. Okay. Except
the Dom, right? The document
object model for E is
complicated. Yes. And you find
yourself poking around documents, dot
all dot forms, dot blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. Right.
With, with water. They basically
flattened when appropriate the Dom.
So you can go, I
eat a text field, and
then this was the cool
part. You can say, I
want this text field by
name, or I want it
by, by index it's one
or buy or whatever. You
know, You don't always, you
know, you can't always remember
where the high, what the
hierarchy is and seldom doesn't
matter. Yeah. And the other
nice thing is that Because
Ruby has regular expressions, just
as a construct there all
the time, you can just
pass in a regular expression
into water and say, give
me the one that ends
with food. Right. And it'll
just figure it out. And
ordinarily, you'd be writing code
in C sharp or vb.net
to run around looking for
that thing. They've, they've heightened
all that for you. Now.
Here's the cool part because
people always say, Oh well,
that's I only write. Yeah.
Well, there's some, there's some
rumblings going on. And with
all cool named products like
water, w a T I
R, there are cool named
sub projects. There's a thing
called Firewater coming soon. You
can see that one coming
down, Broadway shrinks or.com/c Y
F. And then here's a
little known secret in that
you won't find that on
Google yet shrinks.com/c Y G.
This is the actual subversion
repository. And I've sent you
the link to the specific
Firefox 0.01 ranch within the
water. So, so let's back
up. Water Firewater is Firefox
water. Right? So what they've
done And it's so clever,
he's built a Firefox extension
that then Ruby will call.
Wow. But you, but, but
you would just keep using
a water the way you're
comfortable with using water. I
see. It's it's, I'm sure
it's going to be very
cool. And once you have
a nice tight recorder, which
I think that we are
getting there with the shrinker.com/cyfd,
the water web recorder, which
jump-starts things, and I want
to make, make it clear
that the water team is
not a fan of recorders.
I've said that publicly, I
like recorders because they jumpstart
the work. But understand that
they'll get you 80%. You
have to stop, hit, save,
and then edit from there
afterwards. But, and then if
you got cross-browser support, at
least on ion and Firefox,
you've got a really nice
tool. Okay. And then of
course, Travis Illig and Dustin
Woodhouse, both of my buddies
here at Kirlian have written
wrappers around water to allow
an unit to talk to
those things. If you can
check my blog for those
things. So those, those are
the that's, that's free, water's
free. And again, it is
free like a puppy, right?
Sure. So there are guys
here, they struggle with it.
Sometimes they start getting into,
well, I seem to be
copy pasting code a lot.
How can I use
to solve that problem? You
know, these are the kinds
of things that you just
have to stumble with and
that's the hidden cost. Now,
what does pester cat? So
pastor cat is a Java
based proxy based tool for,
for $27 at prankster.com/c Y
B, that will do web
testing. And it will work
on OSX, Mac, windows, or
Linux, and also has a
toolkit that will let you
plug it into ant, which
is the like new we're
using. You're familiar with annex.
This is ant on the
automated builds, automated builds. Exactly.
And this is another really
nice tool that we'll also
do not just gets in
post and things like that,
but also rejects validation of
gets and posts. So you
can put your asserts in
like that as well as
some, some SQL type stuff.
So if you're a lamp
type individual, right. If you're
a Linux Apache, my sequel,
Pearl vamp lamp, right. The
lamp stack, right. Then something
like pester cat would be
a really straightforward thing that
you'd be familiar with right
away. But then I would
ask you to look at,
at Ruby because that's something
that works cross-platform, although water
is still specifically windows. Okay.
So water is still windows
because it's talking to the
IE stuff, but you know,
the, the potential for Ruby
to really become a great
general scripting language is going
to be pretty powerful. Okay.
So I E specific seems
to be kind of the
way things go because the
object model on top of
it is so nice. Right?
And the flexibility is there
a there's another tool called
E unit shrink.com/cya, which is
not just about the JavaScript
object model, but also takes
advantage of see script dot
exe, right? The script runner
that comes with with windows
and it's, it's implemented entirely
in JavaScript, but it is
tailored specifically to windows. So
it's using the IED HTML
model. So it's, it's poking
at the browser using the
browsers, you know, using J
script dot DLL, the JavaScript
engine. So the installation is
trivial. It's just, you know,
X copy deploy. And it
allows you also to use
all the new JavaScript object
oriented stuff to extend it.
Yeah. I, this is a
pretty cool tool. And I
looked at this before we
started getting into water, but
I haven't seen anything moving
on this since October of
last year. And I really
liked the idea of whatever
testing tool I'm going to
buy. I want to know
that it's being actively thought
about it's being worked on
and that people care about
it. Right. So I'm not
really clear if a unit
is paused or what's going
on there, it's still something
interesting to watch. And if
you're going to be, if
you like JavaScript and you're
not interested in learning something
like Ruby, then definitely something
that you might want to
take a look at. Okay.
Now on the JavaScript side,
selenium is the one that
people always compare to Ruby.
Not because it has anything
to do with Ruby or
looks anything like Ruby, but
when people say I want
a free functional web based
tool for testing, and I
want it to be easy,
selenium is just about as
easy as it could get,
but it's really for the
average windows guy, presumably you
and I are the average
windows guys. It's really weird.
The input into them, the
input that you would say,
how, like, what are you,
right? Your testing is HTML
tables. Huh? You write your
tests as HTML tables. So
you would make like a
table, like in any HTML
editor, you could write it
in, you know, Mozilla composer,
front page, and you have
three columns. And then the
first column, you'd say open
second column, you'd say the
page you want to open.
And then the third column
would be for other parameters
you'd pass in. Open only
has the one. So then
on the next line, the
next row in the table,
you might say something like
verify text present. So that
left column, that first column
are the functions. You're going
to be calling in the,
in the toolkit. So you're
saying open this to, you
know, open franklins.net, next line,
verify element, present Carl Franklin or
whatever verified texts present. And
you can say click and
wait, verify location. All these
kinds of verbs appear in
that left side. And then
the other two columns become
input. Now what's cool about
this is that nontechnical people
can do this. Okay? You
buy own HTML tables, right?
They could open it up.
You could give us your
business guy. He could open
it up into front page.
And you could just say,
well, here's a list of
things that you could do.
And you just basically give
them a text file that
says, here's what you can
do, make a table, make
a table and write the
things in the order that
you want. Then when they
run them, the, the running
actually occurs in the browser.
So the browser's doing the
work. So open up a
browser and go to that
Earl that I just sent
you. This is a really
interesting tool that test runner
you can see at shrinks.com/c
Y N, and then on
the right side there, it
says, execute test. This is
all running in the browser.
Just say, you know, run
all. You can also walk
through them and you'll watch
that. It's actually using JavaScript
to look at those tables
and then do the work.
And it's running your site
in a frame below. Now
there's a, there's a test
demo here that we could
shrink their eyes and tell
people about. So again, you
can take a look@thedemoofthatatshrinks.com slash
C Y N. And look@thehomepageforseleniumatshrinker.com
slash C Y nine. Okay,
cool. Now I gotta tell
you, I go back and
forth because there's some really
neat stuff you can do
in Ruby, some very specific
kinds of testing, but for
really simple kind of acceptance
testing, if you didn't have
enough testers, but you had
a lot of, you know,
business people who know what
they want and, and could
be given some kind of
test philosophy. Yeah. There's really
something to be said for
selenium now, because it's written
entirely in JavaScript. It really
works anywhere, but you can't
do, I couldn't write a
test for google.com because I
don't own their domain. So
you do have to install
this on your service side
and then cause you don't
want it. Cause the JavaScript
has to come from the
same location as what the
thing you're going to test.
Right? Otherwise you've got some
cross browser things, but there's
also selenium drivers being written.
So there's two ways you
can do this. It can
run in the browser or
it could be driven by
Ruby or C sharp or
whatever kind of driver application
is currently being, being used.
Okay. But like I'm running
this right now inside of
Firefox and it's, it's pretty,
pretty amazing if you're not
doing functional testing, sit down
and write one of these,
one of these tests and
get it working on maybe
your blog or something simple.
And I really think that
you'll, you'll be amazed at
how, how simple functional testing
has really become. And then
I'm sorry. Another thing I
wanted to point out was
that a really great guide
to why Ruby is cool.
Is it shrinks.com/c Y M
it's called poignant guide to
Ruby. It's a weird little
cartoony. He's got like cartoon
foxes and stuff. So it's
kind of obscure, but download
the PDF and read it
and it'll tell you why
he thinks it's kind, kinda
like Rory wrote it. If
Rory wrote a guideline on
Ruby, it would be this
guy's poignant guide to Ruby's
Good. And, and now visual
studio team system has some
testing stuff built into it
as well. It does. I
haven't looked at the, any
of the testing stuff short
of how it does unit
testing, right? Like, you know,
it's a as a, you
know, a visual studio team
system as a replacement for
end unit. Okay. Have you
looked at it? Does it
do web based? No, I,
I haven't. I mean at
last I interviewed somebody when,
when I talked to the
team, they said it did
have a web testing tool,
but there wasn't a windows
testing tool. Is it a
visual studio team system load
testing tool? Does it? I
haven't used it myself, but,
but from what I understand,
it's a, it's a web
testing tool and that's about
all I know Here. We'll
put it out into the
world. They'll tell us. No,
I suspect it's probably the
application center test on steroids
probably, but I don't know
if it's functional web testing.
I have not seen that
if I had, I probably
would be using it. We'll
leave it up to an
alert listener to send us
a, the skinny on that.
And we can talk about
it next week. Absolutely. So
there's another product out there
Scott, by red gate called
ants, does that fall into
the category of a web
testing? So There's ants load.
The red gate software got
an S series of products
called the ants, profiler, aunts
load. Aunts load is a
load testing application. So like
using segway, there's like segway,
silk performer and segway silk
test. Those are calling out
a functional test tool versus
a, a load testing tool.
Aunts load is more of
a, I want to beat
on that web server as
hard as I can and
see if the application falls
over. I see. Okay, good.
So they really don't belong
in the functional testing. If,
if today, what we're talking
about is, is a functional
testing than no. Okay. That's
a, that's a pretty good
wrap up there. Scott. There's
a lot of really cool
stuff out there and, you
know, varying in prices from
a, you know, get a
second mortgage to free. And
the waste a lot of
time we've found at Karelian
a nice balance for our
large load testing. We use
segway and we paid a
lot for it. And for
our functional testing, we use
water and we continue to
watch selenium and you know,
I'm to figure out what
I want to use to
test DAS blog. I know
that we need a unit
testing framework and it's going
to be probably because we're
an open source project and
we're free either selenium or,
or why. And it sounds
like if you want to
test windows applications, you really
ought to look at test
complete. Yeah. Automated QA test
complete for, for wind forms,
application for windows apps, any
kind of existing comm application.
Pretty hardcore. You could also
look at the stuff from,
from mercury or from segway,
but I think you're gonna
spend a lot more money.
Right. Okay, good. So what
else Besides testing has been
on your mind this week?
Scott? Well, people keep sending
me links to oerb.com. It's
this home entertainment application, not
quite media center wants to
be media center thing. It
seems to be that kind
of the, the meme that's
moving around the net right
now. Like, Hey morphs, cool
People trying to do remote
TV. You know, we need
to do a talk on
we'll do it. We'll do
a talk. Let's do this.
Let's do a show on
poor man's media centers. Cause
there are at least a
dozen and it's like any
excuse to not use windows
media center. People will come
up with a way there's
Java based tools and there's
is beyond TV from SnapStream.
And there are, I feel
like I know more about
those things just from listening
to you talk on the
previous shows then than a,
than I've ever wanted to
know. Yeah. You know, frankly,
I spent years trying to
figure out what I was
going to use to record
TV. A large part of
my life will never be
gotten back because I spent
time screwing around with the
ATI, all in blunder, trying
to get it to work
on my, on my system.
I've got, I'll see, I
was going, you know, I
was going to say hodgepodge,
but I remembered last time
that someone told me it
was pronounced hop hog, whatever,
the hop hog card that
I've gotten, my $50 cheapo
card, it was 50 bucks.
I can pronounce it, how
I want to the hotdog
car that I've got just
plugged right into, beyond TV,
which is really inexpensive. Now
people are saying to look
at orb because it does
trans coding. So basically I
could be at a hotel
log into my machine at
home by punching a hole
in the firewall. And it
would transcode my, my shows
and send them to me.
Yeah. Interestingly And stream them.
Right. I mean, not just
that. Yeah. So it'll basically
say, well, yeah, I've got
a giant file. That's two
gigs, but I've got low
bandwidth here. Stream it to
me at two 56 K
yeah. An orb does that.
And people are excited about
it because apparently it's easy
to set up, but beyond
TV has done that for
a couple of years. I've
been, I've been going to
hotels on, on trips, going
to tech ed and watching
TV, VMI be on TV
or be on TV link
stuff from SnapStream. So maybe
a listener can tell me
why orb is cooler than
that. Or maybe they didn't
realize that beyond TV already
does that. Okay. So that
was, that was, that was
an interesting thing though. But
people keep saying, take a
look at OERB, take a
look at orb. It also
seems like if you put
orb on a media center,
PC orb does the recording
and the media center P
doesn't. Huh. And that seemed
a little disturbing to me.
It was cool that orb
would create files in the
media center, PC format. But
I don't know what I
think about having another, that's
not the media center doing
the Recording for me. How's
that different from Slingbox. Okay.
So, so Slingbox, if I
understand correctly, just looks at
your media and quote unquote,
slings it around. It is
basically a, a hardware transcoder
I see it's a piece
of hardware that will, that
will throw your stuff around
to wherever you want. And
from what I understand with
Slingbox, it's not like it
plugs in and you can
have multiple peoples, you know,
stealing cable off of your
box. Basically you have to
know, nobody can watch another
channel while you're watching it
remotely. In other words, it's
a re definitely a single
user remote a viewer for
your whatever's coming off your
cable box. Yeah. Well Slingbox
apparently supports DVR satellite boxes,
DVDs. I mean, it is
a it's it's less about
being a PC and Slingbox
is more about capturing your
existing media, not your media
center, but your existing entertainment
centers, whatever that is content
and storing it off somewhere.
So then you can look
at it elsewhere. Okay. So
I think Slingbox should be
the kind of thing that
I would recommend to my
dad. Yeah. Because it would
plug in, it would work.
He would have to think
about it. It is an
appliance. Okay. While all of
these different tools that we'll
talk about in a future
show about media centerpieces all
require a PC. I don't
get the impression that, that
other than the sling player,
which is the thing that
you would use to watch
your shows, you don't require
a whole system to use
a Slingbox On that future
show. Perhaps we should wait
until something really cool comes
out. Yeah. I need to
get myself one of these
high Def TV shows that
you're talking about the six
tuners or something. Right. And
apparently Sony's also got a
very expensive and complicated thing
called location, free TV. I
noticed that when I recently
upgraded my PSP, my PlayStation
portable, I now have built
in location free TV. So
this is kind of Sony
Slingbox okay. Except it's. And
they've got it up at
Fry's and people walk past
it and don't care got
a URL for that. Yeah.
That is up at
dot com slash C Y
H. This is a Sony
kind of a sling box.
And then they they've got
pictures on their little flash
demo of people holding, not
quite origami looking devices, sitting
in their lounge chairs, watching
television, I C and a,
and of course with your
PSP, you'd be able to
watch it as well. Personally,
I'd much rather avoid streaming
this stuff around and I
would just copy it to
my PSP and watch it
anywhere I want to. I
really would have never, The
media is so cheap. You
know, now that become lower
class or, you know, w
T you know, too low
brow for us, This is
the thing I was explaining.
I was explaining to my,
my, my 80 year old
uncle, the concept of sneaker
net, because he's got a
dial up connection. I wanted
to back up his computer.
So I went over there
this weekend with a, I
was going to take over
a, like a USB key,
but it didn't have one.
So I took my camera,
I took my camera with
two gigs. I plugged in
my digital camera and I
backed up his whole computer.
And I said, I said,
what am I doing? What
are you doing here? You
know, why couldn't just email
it to you? And I
said, well, you know, it's
FedEx is faster than your
dial up. You know, I
could overnight this thing and
it would come to me
faster than you could upload
it. Yeah. So I was
saying, well, it's great that
we have location free TV
and we're streaming media around
and whatnot. But it's just
as easy if I really
want to watch the show
to burn it to a
DVD and put it in
my bag. Right. How many
times have you gotten to
a hotel? And they have
a crap connection. All right.
I know you can't count
on the wireless at Starbucks
to get you the, the
winter Olympics. I'm just going
to burn them to a
disc and I'll take them
with me. Yep, exactly. So
there's something to be said
for sneaker net. I agree.
So a what what's you
got one more thing on
the list here that you
want to talk about halo
zero. Oh, this is the
coolest man. I love this.
This is a two D
side scroller quote, unquote, port
of halo. So it's a
side scroller halo. It's like,
remember like airplay Contra or,
you know, our type, those
kind of like classic three
20 by two big pixel.
This is absolutely fantastic. It's
a trickster.com/c Y I, and
it is brilliant. You might
have to struggle with the
download it. So it's very
popular. All right. So let
me, let me ask, did
they start with the actual
halo environment? No. Is it
completely redone? This is a,
this is just a as
if halo is a comic
book. Alright, so it's brand
new. They didn't use any
of the bits from halo.
No, no, no. This is,
this is an, Oh, this
is an homage. I got
you to be, to be
French of what they're doing.
It's cool. It's fantastic. Here's
the link. Take a look
at that. Curl it. It
reminds me a lot of
like Contra or super Mario.
It's got that kind of
classic crisp, 2d, shaded, 2d,
Sprite style. It's a blast
to play. They use the
same heads up display as
halo. And the, the graphics
are really very nice. It's,
it's a really fun game.
And I don't know why,
it's why it's free. I
love those horizontal play. Oh
yeah. They've even got a
level editor now, so you
can, you can make your
own levels. That's great. Fantastic
stuff. So Scott, that, I
guess that's a show. What
are we gonna talk about
next week? I think next
week, we're going to talk
about the new Microsoft command
shell codename. Monad. This is
like the new dos prompt
for, for windows. And I
am absolutely loving it. I'm
in love with this thing.
Kevin Hill turned me on to
this thing. I looked at
it before I'd said, ah,
this is too complicated. And
then one day I needed
it and I started poking
around and it is absolutely
fantastic. All right. It's, it's
the way that we're going.
And you got to check
it out. And then I
think maybe the week after
that, we'll talk about a
little bit more about micro
formats. Micro formats are, well,
that'll be a show then
when you start, he just
won't even start. All right,
Scott. Thanks a lot. And
thank you for listening and
we'll see you next week
on the handsome notes.